#### 1 Refer to Definition 1.10. Show that the divisibility relation | makes the set N of natural numbers a partially ordered set.
Oh, basically, if x | y, then y = nx, and if y | z, then z = my => z = mnx so transitivity is upheld. Reflexivity is upheld because x = 1x and asymmetry isnupheld because y = nx and x ≠ my, there is no integer to multiply y with that will give you a smaller positive number. 

#### 2 Explain why the divisibility relation | does not define a partial ordering on the set Z of integers.
reflexivity is upheld and transitivity is upheld, that means asymmetry has to be broken which means that nx = y => x = y/n or a negative number that is smaller in magnitude than x. I think?

#### 3 Consider the poset (N, |). Are there any minimal elements? Are there any maximal elements? Explain.
The minimal element would be 1 since it can divide into any natural number, but that becomes transitive. There would be no maximum since the set of natural numbers includes the integers from 1 to infinity and we can never reach infinity. 

#### 9 The Hasse diagram below defines a partial ordering on the set {0, 1, 2, 3}. Give the set of ordered pairs corresponding to this relation.
(0, 1), (0, 2), (1, 3), (2, 3)

#### 10 The Hasse diagram below defines a partial ordering on the set {0, 1, 2, 3}. Give the set of ordered pairs corresponding to this relation.
(0, 1), (1, 2), (1, 3)

#### 15 Let X be the following set (of sets of letters). X = {{b}, {b, e}, {b, r}, {b, e, r}, {a, r}, {b, a, r}, {b, e, a, r, s}}. Then X is a partially ordered set under the ⊆ relation.
- a. Draw the Hasse diagram for this partial ordering.
    - b is the maximal element, branches to e and r; r branches to a and e branches to s or a branches to s
- b. Name all minimal elements, if any exist.
    - s and a or just s
- c. Name a pair of incomparable elements, if any exist.
    - if a AND s are both minimum elements then they are incomparable but if not, then are there no is pair of incomparable elements

#### 17 Suppose you want to write a program that will collect information on a customer’s tastes and customize web content accordingly. By monitoring online shopping habits, you are able to collect a set of pairwise preferences on a set X of products. If x, y ∈ X are two different products, we say that x   y if the customer prefers y over x. (In order to satisfy the reflexive property, we stipulate that x   x for all x ∈ X.) Suppose you know the following things about your customer. Suppose you want to write a program that will collect information on a customer’s tastes and customize web content accordingly. By monitoring online shopping habits, you are able to collect a set of pairwise preferences on a set X of products. If x, y ∈ X are two different products, we say that x   y if the customer prefers y over x. (In order to satisfy the reflexive property, we stipulate that x   x for all x ∈ X.) Suppose you know the following things about your customer. 
- a. Draw the Hasse diagram for (X, ≤).
    - pdf
- b. What is/are the customer’s favorite vegetable(s)? (I.e., what are the maximal element(s)?) What is/are the least favorite?
    - favorite is onions and eggplant, least favorite is broccoli
- c. Use topological sorting to rank order these vegetables according to the customer’s preferences. Is the ranking unique?
    - not unique since multiple maximal elements

#### 18 A partition of a positive integer n is a list of positive integers a1, a2, ..., ak such that a1 + a2 + ... + ak = n. For example, the following are distinct partitions of 5. The order of the list doesn’t matter; 1, 2, 2 is the same partition as 2, 1, 2. There is a natural partial ordering on the set of partitions of n: if P1 and P2 are partitions, define P1 P2 if P1 can be obtained by combining parts of P2. For example, 1, 2, 2   1, 1, 1, 1, 1 because 1, 2, 2 = 1, 1+1, 1+1. On the other hand, 2,3 and 1,4 are incomparable elements in this poset.
- a. Write the partitions of 6 in a Hasse diagram. (There are 11 partitions of 6.)
    - 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 5
    - 1 + 1 + 1 + 2 = 5
    - 1 + 1 + 2 + 1 = 5
    - 1 + 2 + 1 + 1 = 5
    - 2 + 1 + 1 + 1 = 5
    - 1 + 2 + 2 = 5
    - 2 + 1 + 2 = 5
    - 1 + 1 + 3 = 5
    - 1 + 3 + 1 = 5
    - 3 + 1 + 1 = 5
    - 2 + 3 = 5
    - 3 + 2 = 5
- b. Is this a total ordering? Why or why not?
    - no  because there are multiple minimal and maximal elements meaning we can take several paths to get to the the top and there is no enforced path; we could make it a total ordering if we enfored a certain path I think

#### 21 Let A ⊆ N be the set of all factors of 12, and let B ⊆ N be the set of all factors of n. Find a natural number n ≠ 12 so that (A, |) ≅ (B, |). Give a table of values for the one-to-one correspondence that describes the isomorphism.
I don't really know what n is? 