##### 1 In general, a graph is made up of vertices, which we draw as dots, and edges, which we draw as line segments or curves connecting two dots. Consider the graph G below, in which all the parts are labeled.
- a: List the vertices in G
    - A, B, C, D
- b: List the edges in G.
    - u, v, w, x, y, z

##### 2 Identify the degree of each vertex in G, above.
A:3, B:2, C:4, D:4

##### 3 Graph H below looks like graph G but it’s directed. Intuitively, the directions of the edges indicate that you can only travel in one direction along an edge.
- a: In graph G, you can get from A to B in at least three ways, but in graph H you can’t get from A  to B at all. Explain why.
    - Graph H is a directed graph and no edges are directed towards B i.e. B has an indegee of 0
-b In a directed graph we can speak of the indegree and outdegree of a vertex — the indegree is the number of edges going into a vertex, and the outdegree  is the number of edges going out of the vertex. What are the indegree and outdegree of A in H?
    - A has one indegree (from B) and two outdegrees (to C and D)

##### 4 
- a: This path would be written as the sequence A, u, B, v, D, y, C. Explain how this representation as a sequence connects to the intuitive visual understanding of a path.
    - The verticies (A, B, C, D) are connected by the edges in the graph and they act like conjunctions in a sentence
- b: Give two more paths from A to C.
    - A, x, C | A, w, D, y, C

##### 5 An undirected graph is connected if there is a path between any two vertices. Draw an example of a graph that is not connected.
It's just two dots or nodes that don't have an edge connecting them

##### 6 An Euler path is a path that uses every edge exactly once. Explain why if you were going to draw an Euler path in G, you would have to either start or end at A. (Hint: Euler proved a fact that implies this, but see if you can explain this without using that fact: think intuitively about how when your path goes through A, two edges get used.)
I don't know how to explain it lol. So, it has to start or end at an odd number because then an Euler path can't be found; think of a graph that has a node that only has one edge, if that edge is not where you started or ended, how would you go to it and go away from it without using its connected edge more than once?

##### 7 There’s another vertex that must be either the start or end of any Euler path in G—which one, and why?
D because it's symmetric to A

##### 8 Find an Euler path in G.
A, u, B, v, D, y C, z, C, x A, w, D