##### 1 A coloring of a graph involves labeling each vertex of the graph, such that if two different vertices have an edge between them they have to have different labels. (Traditionally the labels would be colors—often people get lazy and use numbers.) Here’s a graph G. Give a coloring of G with 5 colors.
- A(1), B(2), C(3), D(4), E(3), F(5)

##### 2 Give a coloring of G with 3 colors.
- A(2), B(2), C(3), D(4), E(3), F(2) | The color is the degree of each vertex

##### 3 Explain why you need at least 3 colors to color G. (Hint: Find a triangle in the graph and explain why you need at least 3 colors to color the triangle.)
- There are at least 3 differences between the verticies in G

##### 4 Draw a graph that you need 4 colors to color.
- In my notebook

##### 5 | In my notebook

##### 6 Based on the discussion of binary search trees in the text, construct a binary search tree for this word list; the first couple words are done for you. *techie, undies, Trumpist, zoomer, bankster, audist, schmutz*
- In my notebook

##### 7 Run through the process of deciding if NeverTrumper is on this word list two ways, and notice how many words you had to check in order to do so:
- a: By just going through the list as written in the problem description.
    - Just alphabetical comparison with each word
- b: Using the binary search tree.
    - nice and easy :)
- c: Binary search trees give an efficiency advantage over the list, or even over an alphabetized list. Explain that advantage as clearly as you can.
    - Things are sorted in a binary fashion instead of linearly, basically you have 2^n options, where the number is how many words you can store and n is the number of comparisons you need to make