## Section 2.1 Problems

##### 1 Consider the following undirected graph.
- a: How many edges are there in this graph?
    - 9
- b: Give the degree of each vertex.
    - a:4, b:4, c:2, d:4, e:4
- c: Do these numbers agree with Euler’s first observation (num of degrees is twice of edges)?
    - yes

##### 2 Consider the following directed graph.
- a: Give the indegree of each vertex.
    - a:1, b:1, c:1, d:2, e:2
- b: Give the outdegree of each vertex.
    - a:1, b:3, c:1, d:1, e:1
- c: Compute the sum of the indegrees and the sum of the outdegrees. What do you notice?
    - 9 + 7 = 16 == twice as many edges in total

##### 4 Need to draw so no

##### 5 Need to draw so no

##### 6 Need to draw so no

##### 7 Recall Example 2.1. In modern-day Kaliningrad, two of the bridges from Euler’s day no longer exist; see Figure 2.8. Represent these five bridges and four land masses as an undirected graph. Is it possible to travel an Euler path on this graph? Why or why not?
Yes since there is two odd degreed vertecies

##### 9 Consider the following graph.
- a: Without adding new vertices, add a single edge to the graph so that the new graph will have an Euler path. Which vertices does your new edge connect?
    - Connect *b* and *e*
- b: In addition to the edge from part (a), add a second edge (using the existing vertices) so that the resulting graph will have an Euler circuit. Which vertices does your second new edge connect?
    - Connect *e* and *c*

##### 10 Too much work

##### 12 Too much work

##### 13 Need to draw so no

##### 15 Using as few groups as possible, put the words *fish, sit, stay, play, diet, tree, duck, dog,* and *hen* into groups such that none of the words in a group have any letters in common. Use a graph model and graph coloring. Justify your answer: explain why your grouping uses the fewest groups possible.
 - Group1(fish, play, tree, duck), Group2(dog, hen, sit), Group3(stay, diet) --> I don't know how else you'd group this so I can't justify lol

##### 18 I don't know what they mean by colors

##### 23 Needs drawing so no

##### 24 Consider the following list of numbers: 123, 684, 121, 511, 602, 50, 43
- a: Place the numbers, in the order given, into a binary search tree.
            123
           /   \
         121   684
        /     /
       50    511
      /        \
     43         602
- b: The height of a binary search tree is the maximum number of edges you have to go through to reach the bottom of the tree, starting at the root. What is the height of the tree in part (a)?
    - The height is 3
- c: Reorder the numbers so that when they are put into a binary search tree, the height of the resulting tree is less than the height of the tree in part (a). Give both your new list and the search tree it produces.
               123
           /        \
          50        602
         /  \      /   \
       43   121  511   683

##### 29 Nah