### 1 Let Z be the set of integers (i.e. all the counting numbers together with their opposites and 0). Within Z, let’s look at the solution set of the inequality |x-9| ≤ 10. (You might recall from an algebra class that this is the set of integers that are at most 10 units away from 9 on the number line.) Let’s call this solution set S. List the elements of S.
S = {-1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19}

### Let’s write S in set-builder notation. Set-builder notation starts by giving the possible elements you’re looking at—in this case, integers— and then says which of those values should make it into the set. So for S we would like to write S={xϵZ | something something something} where the “something something something” describes under what conditions some integer x makes it into S. Write the correct set-builder notation for S.
S = {x ϵ Z | (|x - 9|) ≤ 10}

### 3 Consider the following two sets. List the elements of each set and explain the difference between them.
- a: A = { x ϵ S | x^2 ϵ S} --> A = {1, 0, 1, 4, 9, 16}
- b: B = { x ϵ Z | x^2 ϵ S}
- c: Difference between these two sets:
    - The properties for both sets are the same, that is, x^2 has to be in the set of S e.g. if x = 1, x^2 = 1 and therefore is in the set of S. The difference between the two sets is the domain of x. In set A, x is limited to the domain of S, and if that number squared isn't in S, then it doesn't make it into A. On the other hand, in set B, x has the domain of all integers, so any of the positive numbers in A for x can have their complements be used in B. 

### 4 List the elements of C = { x ϵ S | x is odd}.
C = {-1, 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19}

### 5 We write X∩Y for the set of all elements that are both in X and in Y. For example, if X = {x | x is a famous person} and Y = {x | x is a man} then Barack Obama is in X∩Y because he’s both famous and a man. My dad is not in X∩Y because he’s a man (i.e. he’s in Y) but he’s not famous (not in X), and Sonia Sotomayor is not in X∩Y because she’s famous but she’s not a man.
- a: Draw a Venn diagram illustrating X, Y, and XY, including the examples above and also some other examples.
    - It's a Venn diagram with two circles where the overlapping part is highlighted. 
- b: In problems 3 and 4 we described A, B, and C. Identify the elements of A∩C.
    - {1, 9}
- c: Draw a Venn diagram illustrating A, C, and A∩C.
    - 1 and 9 would be overlapping and then the other numbers would be in their respective circles
- d: What is A∩B? Explain.
    - Is the set that contains all the numbers that the sets A and B have in common. 

### 6 We write X∪Y for the set of all elements that are in X or in Y (or both). For example, if X = {x | x is a famous person} and Y = {x | x is a man} then Barack Obama is in X∪Y because he’s both famous and a man. My dad is in X∪Y because he’s a man (i.e. he’s in X) even though he’s not famous (not in Y), and Sonia Sotomayor is in X∪Y because she’s famous, even though she’s not a man.
- a: In your Venn diagram from #5a, how does X∪Y show up? Label it.
    - Everything is highlighted
- b: Is there anyone who’s not in X∪Y?
    - People who are not women or men and not famous
- c: In problems 3 and 4 we described A, B, and C. Identify the elements of A∪C.
    - All of the elements of A are in C. 
- d: What is A∪B? Explain.
    - All of the elements in A and B. 

### 7 People often have trouble with the idea that intersections correspond to “and” and unions correspond to “or.” There’s something counterintuitive about it, that has to do with the way “or” and especially “and” are used in Engllish.
- a: Explain the difference between “it was a room full of all the men and famous people” and “everyone in the room was both a man and a famous person.”
    - The first phrase depicts a scene where there are famous people (men, women, other) AND men, whereas the second phrase depicts a room where every person is a man and a famous person
- b: Even though both of the sentences in part a use the word “and,” one corresponds roughly to a union and the other sentence corresponds roughly to an intersection. Which is which?
    - The first phrase is a union while the second phrase is an intersection
- c: “Everyone in the room was both a man and a famous person” has a clear translation into formal logic: what  is that translation?
    - x is a person, M(x) = x is a man, F(x) = x is a famous person, (Vx)[M(x) ^ F(x)]
- d: It’s harder to translate “it was a room full of all the men and famous people” into formal logic, but do your best to either translate it or explain why it’s hard.
    - x, y is a person, M(x) = x is a man, F(y) = y is a famous person, (Vx)(Ey)[M(x) v F(y)], it's hard because all of the x's are men but some of them might be famous to so we can't have ONE statement that says all of x are men and some of x is famous. 

### 8 A quick point about complements: we use the set X’ to denote “everything that’s not in X.” The problem is that this can be a little unclear.
- a: Using the set S from #1, is my dad in S’? Don’t answer this question. Explain why this question is confusing and doesn’t really have an answer.
    - this is confusing since S' implies the set which has ALL of the information outside of S which would presumably mean your dad. However, the domain of S, or at least, the values which x can take are only numbers in a specified range. That has nothing to do with humans unless you were representing people as numbers. 
- b: To address the problem raised by part a, we only use complements in the context in which there’s a clear universe (also called a universal set) in which we’re working (the universe corresponds roughly to the domain we used in predicate logic). If we use the set of all integers Z as our universe, what is S’? (You can’t actually list all the elements but list a bunch to give a feel for this set.)
    -  Basically all the numbers that are not in S