### 1 Draw Venn diagrams to illustrate De Morgan’s laws for sets (Theorem 2.1).
No, plus it's already in the examples in the text

### 2 Draw a Venn diagram to show the region A ∩ B′. This region is also denoted A\B, and is called the set difference, for obvious reasons.
The overlapping part of A and B is not highlited but the rest of A is highlited. 

### 3 LetA={2,3,4},B={3,4,5,6},and suppose the universal set is U={1,2,...,9}. List all the elements in the following sets.
- a: (A ∪ B)′
    - (A ∪ B)′ = (A v B)′ = A′ ^ B′ = {1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9} ^ {1, 2, 7, 8, 9} = **{1, 7, 8, 9}**

### 4 Let the following sets be given.
- G = {All good citizens}
- C = {All charitable people}
- P = {All polite people}
- Write the statement, “Everyone who is charitable and polite is a good citizen,” in the language of set theory.

A = {x ∈ G | (x ∈ C) ^ (x ∈ P) }, Which I think can be written like so: G ⊆ (C ∩ P)

### 6 Consider the following sets. The universal set U for this problem is the set of all residents of India.
- A = {All English speakers}
- B = {All Hindi speakers}
- C = {All Urdu speakers}
- Express the following sets in the symbols of set theory.
- a: Residents of India who speak English, Hindi, and Urdu.
    - A ∩ B ∩ C
- b: Residents of India who do not speak English, Hindi, or Urdu. 
    - ¬(A ∪ B ∪ C) = ¬(A v B v C) = A' ^ B' ^ C'
- c: Residents of India who speak English, but not Hindi or Urdu.
    - A ∪ ¬(B ∩ C) = A v ¬(B ^ C) = A v B' v C'

### 7 Consider the following sets. The universal set for this problem is the set of all quadrilaterals.
- A = {All parallelograms}
- B = {All rhombuses}
- C = {All rectangles}
- D = {All trapezoids}
- Using only the symbols x, A, B, C, D, ∈, ⊆, =, ≠, ∩, ∪, ×, ′, Ø, (, and), write the following statements in set notation.
- a: The polygon x is a parallelogram, but it isn’t a rhombus.
    - x is a polygon, S = {x ∈ (A ∩ B')}
- b: There are other quadrilaterals besides parallelograms and trapezoids.
    - x is a polygon, S = {x ∈ (A ∩ D ∩ U)}
- c: Both rectangles and rhombuses are types of parallelograms.
    - (B ∪ C) ⊆ A

### 13 Let A, B, and C be sets, and let X = A∪B.
- a: Write |X∩C| in terms of |A∩C|, |B∩C|, and|A∩B∩C|. Hint: In the following Venn diagram, X ∩ C is the shaded area.
    - (A ∩ C) ∪ (A ∩ B) ∪ (B ∩ C)
- b: Write |A∪B∪C| in terms of A, B, C, |A∩B|, |A∩C|, |B∩C|, and |A∩B∩C|. (The result is the inclusion–exclusion principle for three sets.)
    - I don't know how to do this one, it's just weird

### 15 Write down all elements of ({1, 2, 3} ∩ {2, 3, 4, 5}) ∪ {6, 7}.
{2, 3, 6, 7}

### 16 Write down all elements of {A, B, C} × {H, K}.
{(A, H), (A, K), (B, H), (B, K), (C, H), (C, K)}

### 17 Let S = {a, b, c}. Write down all the elements in the following sets.
- S x S = {(a, a), (a, b), (a, c), (b, a), (b, b), (b, c), (c, a), (c, b), (c, c)}
- P(s) = {Ø, {...}, ..., {...}}

### 18 An integer solution to the equation 3x+4 = 7y is an ordered pair of integers (x, y) that satisfies the equation. For example, (1, 1) is one such solution. Write the set of all integer solutions to the equation 3x + 4 = 7y in set builder notation.
{(x, y) ∈ **R**^2 | x = (7y - 4)/3}

### 19 Use Definition 1.6 to write the set of odd integers in set builder notation.
S = {x ∈ Z | x = 2k + 1, k an integer}

### 25 Let E be the set of all even integers, and let O be the set of all odd integers.
- a: Explain why (E ∪ O) ⊆ Z.
    - E = {x ∈ Z | x = 2k, k an integer} and O = {x ∈ Z | x = 2k + 1, k an integer} both sets are subsets of Z.
- b: Explain why Z ⊆ (E ∪ O).
    - E ∪ O = E v U = 2k v 2k + 1, ...I don't know how to do this

### 30 Draw an undirected graph G with the following properties. The vertices of G correspond to the elements of P({0, 1}). Two vertices (corresponding to A, B ∈ P({0, 1})) are connected by an edge if and only if A ∩ B = Ø.
I think this is just two nodes with values 0 and 1 connected by an edge since Ø is a part of every set

### 31 Repeat Exercise 30 using P({0, 1, 2}) instead of P({0, 1}).
Extension of what's above although I don't know if each node is connected to each other node

### 32 Let X be any finite set. Consider the graph G described in Exercise 30, replacing P({0, 1}) with P(X). Explain why G must be a connected graph.
G is a connected graph since every vertex is connceted to every other vertex due to Ø being a subset of EVERY set