#### 1. Explain why the inverse of f(x)=3x-5 is i(x)=(x+5)/3.
An inverse function is one that undos another function. We know that our output it given by the algebric expression above and for us to map our codomain back to the original domain, we can just undo the operations we did on y to get back to x. Therefore, we just have to "undo" the algebraic expression by isolating x on the right which gives us the inverse. 

#### 2. Find an inverse for the function g(x)=(x-3)^3 and explain why it works.
We know that the function g(x) maps a value of x in the domain to a value of y in the codomain therefore we can rewrite the function as y = (x-3)^3 and then algebraically undo the expression to get y^(1/3) + 3 = x

#### 3. In an algebra class, you probably learned an inverse function for h(x)=e^x but this is only partly right.
- a. Explain why the function h1:R -> R defined by h1(x)=e^x does not have an inverse function h1-1:R -> R. (Hint: for a function h-1:R -> R we should be able to calculate h-1(-3).)
    - Well we know that the inverse of e^x is ln(x); the problem with that is becayse of e^x's asymptotic nature; Since it only produces positive y values but takes in the entire x domain, when we undo the function and we're using the domain of x, we can only approach 0 and use no negative numbers. 
- b. How does the concept of being onto connect to the fact that h1 doesn’t have an inverse?
    - an onto function is one that has all of the codomain's values mapped to even if it is more than once. inverse functions have to be one-to-one or a bijection otherwise there is no inverse.
- c. If we view this function as a function h2:R -> R+, where R+ is the set of all positive real numbers, then h2 has an inverse. What is this inverse function, and what are its domain and codomain?
    - ln(x) h2^-1: R+ -> R

#### 4. For f:X -> Y and g:Y -> Z, we can define g•f:X -> Z by (g • f)(x)=g(f(x)).
- a. Let k(x)=x^2-3x-2. What is the domain of k? What is the codomain of k?
    - the domain of k is **R** and the codomain is [-0.25, infinity)
- b. Write formulas for k•h1 and h1•k. (Use h1 from earlier in this activity.)
    - k•h1 = (e^x)^2 - 3e^x - 2, h1•k = e^(x^2 -3x + 2)
- c. Some people ask why the concept of codomains is useful—in algebra classes people are used to talking about ranges, not codomains. Part b gives an explanation: finding the range of k is difficult but we know that h1•k makes sense because the codomain of k is the same as the domain of h1. We talk about functions with codomain R as real-valued functions—explain why the concept of a real-valued function is useful.
    - I think because it can take in any value; that means any other functions output can be used an input but not necessarily vice versa
- d. Explain why it’s not obvious that we can construct a function h2^-1•k:R -> R. (Use the concepts of domains and codomains.) The codomain of k is **R** while the domain of h2^-1 is only from (0, infinity) therefore we can't just plug it in; the probelm is that the codomain of h2^-1 is **R** while it's domain is not. 

#### 5. Now let’s talk about the function s:R -> R^(≥0) defined by s(x)=x2. (R^(≥0) is the set of real numbers that are ≥0.)
a. Explain why we only have a hope of finding an inverse for s if we define it with codomain R^(≥0) rather than **R**.
    - Because if we don't our inverse function will have to map to two value for a single value; inverse functions can only be one-to-one so we have to get rid of all duplicates
- b. Explain why s does not in fact have an inverse. (Hint: think back to the previous activity about functions that aren’t really functions, and think about “s-1(y)=the value of x for which s(x)=y.”)
    - because the inverse would have to map to two values in the domain which breaks the definition of an inverse
- c. How does the concept of being one-to-one connect to the fact that s doesn’t have an inverse?
    - functions can only be inverses if their values only map to a single unique value
- d. The concept we need here is restriction: for f:X -> Y and W -> X, we can define f|W:W -> Y by f|W(x)=f(x). This seems like a silly maneuver but it’s not: explain why s|R≥0 is one-to-one.
    - because now each value of x only maps to one value of y
- e. s | R^(≥0) has an inverse—what is it?
    - (x)^1/2
- f. The concept of restrictions also gets us around another problem with making the domain/codomain idea work: since s has codomain R≥0 and k (from earlier in this activity) has domain R, we can’t technically define k•s. How can we get around this using a restriction?
    - restrict k's domain to R^(≥0)