## Section 2.3 Problems

#### 2 See Definitions 2.3 and 2.4. Write the definitions of one-to-one and onto in terms of predicate logic.
x is an object in the domain and y is an object in the codomain, F(x, y) means x has a unique y in the codomain: One to one -> (Vx)(Vy)(F(x, y)), Onto -> (Ex)(Vy)(F(x, y))

#### 3 Show that the function of Example 2.20 is not one-to-one.
There exists a value in the domain that isn't used, namely, the empty set, so since it isn't used to map onto Y, Y can't map back to it (not in the codomain)

#### 4 Same as 3 except onto
All of the subdomains in Y are mapped to, but they don't map back to all of the elements in X

#### 5 Several languages are spoken in India; let L be the set of all such languages, and let U be the set of all residents of India. Explain why the proposed function f : U → L defined by f(u) = the language that u speaks is not well defined
Not well defined since people can speak more than one language i.e. the function would have to ambiguously map one element in the domain to several elemetns in the codomain

#### 6 Let P be a set of people,and let Q be a set of occupations. Define a function f:P→Q by setting f (p) equal to p’s occupation. What must be true about the people in P for f to be a well-defined function?
That those people only have that occupation i.e. they only work one job and or in a single industry

#### 12 Consider the situation of Example 2.30. Describe a different one-to-one correspondence g: Y → X. Show that your function is both one-to-one and onto.
f(x) = x, the domain and codomain are the same; the value maps to itself :)

#### 17 Define a function f:Z→Z×Z by f(x)=(2x+3,x−4).
- a. Is f one-to-one? Prove or disprove.
    - 2x + 3 ∈ Z and x - 4 ∈ Z and neither of the functions map to multiple values, f(a) = f(b) is true for both functions
- b. Does f map Z onto Z × Z? Prove or disprove.
    - Z ⊆ Z and each function is in the set of Z, 2x+3 ∈ Z and x-4 ∈ Z. Since the functions are in the sets of both the codomain and the domain, the function is also onto 

#### 18 Define a map t:R×R→R×R by t(a,b)=(a+b,a−b).Prove that t isa one-to-one correspondence.
t(a, b) = t(c, d) --> (a+b, a-b) = (c+d, c-d) --> a+b = c+d, a-b = c-d, substitution blah blah blah

#### 19 Let X be a set. Define a map d:X→X×X by d(x)=(x,x).
- a. Is d one-to-one? Prove or disprove.
    - yes because d(a) = d(b) means a = b therefore one to one
- b. Is d onto? Prove or disprove.
    - yes, every value maps to itself, i have to look up the rigorous proof but yes

#### 29 Define functions f,g:N→N by f(x) = 2x and g(x) = x/2. Is f•g the same as g•f? Explain
f•g = 2(x/2) = x and g•f = (2x)/2 = x so yes they are the same

#### 30 Let f:X→Y andg :Y→Z be one-to-one correspondences.Prove that (g◦f)−1 = f^−1◦g^−1.
The codomain of of both variations would be X

#### 36 Nah