#### 1 An equivalence relation is one that’s reflexive (for every x, xRx), transitive (if xRy and yRz then xRz), and symmetric (if xRy then yRx). Explain why the relation on people defined by xHy if x and y live together (i.e. their official primary place of residence is the same place) is an equivalence relation.

This is an equivalence relation because 1. the person lives in the same house as themselves which satisfies reflecivity, 2. if the person lives with someone else in the same home, then that person also lives with the original in the same home satisfying symmetry, and 3. if x lives with y and y lives with z, by the second property of equvialnces, we can substite x in for y (y acts as a connection point) and see that x lives in the same house as z. 

#### 2 Explain why the relation on college students defined by xCy if x and y are in a class together is symmetric and reflexive, but is not an equivalence relation because it’s not transitive.

This is not transitive because *any* class can act as a relation between two students e.g. if I am in CS class with Alice, and Alice shares a biology class with Bob, if I am not taking biology, then Bob and I are not in the same class even though I share a class with Alice. 

#### 3 A partition of a set X is a collection P of subsets of X (“classes”) such that every element of x is in exactly one class.
- a. Explain why the set of primary places of residence gives a partition of the set of all people.
    - Each primary place of residence is represented by at least one person
- b. For the partition in part a to work, everyone has to have a primary place of residence. Officially everyone does, but the lived reality is more complicated. Give examples of people for whom their primary place of residence might be a difficult question.
    - If someone is homeless or their primary place of residence gets destroyed then they don't have an actual place of residence while on paper
- c. Give examples of reasons officials care about making primary places of residence into a partition.
    - That would mean everyone has a home and we don't have to worry about providing them as much? Is this a politics questions? What or who are officials?
- d. Explain why the set of all math classes is not a partition.
    - Not every math class is always represnted or used, some math classes have been discontinued or scrapped
- e. Explain the connection between the fact that the set of all math classes is not a partition but the set of all primary residences is, and the fact that H above is an equivalence relation but C is not.
    - I don't know what H or C is? I don't really see a connection?
- f. What are the equivalence classes in the equivalence relation H?
    - what is H???

#### The text gives a definition of the equivalence relation “≡ mod n”: a ≡ b (mod n) if a = b + kn for some integer k.
- a. Explain why a ≡ k (mod  n) if k is the remainder when we divide a by n.
    - that's the definiton of the modulus operator? you take a and mod it by n then the remainder is k? Am I wrong? What do you mean? Uhh, k would be (a - b)/n but that doesn't necesarrily mean an integer will be given.
- b. Use this, and the fact that “≡ mod n” is an equivalence relation, to prove that a ≡ b (mod n) if and only if they have the same remainder when we divide by n.
    - a ≡ b (mod n) => a = b + kn, c = d + ln? I'm confused what do you want me to prove??
- c. How many equivalence classes are there mod 3?
    - there should be three, ..., -3, 0, 3, 6, ... && ..., -2, 1, 4, 7, ... && ..., -1, 2, 5, 8, ...
- d. Look in the text at proposition 2.1 and the two paragraphs after its proof. Explain the connection between the statement of proposition 2.1 and the idea that the operations [a]+[b] and [a]•[b] are well-defined. (Look back at section 2.3 for a reminder of what it means for a function to be well-defined.)
    - A well defined function is one in which each value in the domain is assigned a value in the codomain. Prop 2.1 says that two numbers from different equivalent sets add or multiply up to those numbers either added or multipled, respectively? Oh, no, what prop 2.1 says is that if you take two nums from different equivalent sets and add or multiply them together and then mod them, that gives you the same result as if you took the mod of each number individually and then added or multiplied the remainders afterwards. Well defined I think is basically saying that f(a) <=> f(a); what that means here is that if a + b = c, a + b ≡ x (mod n) = c ≡ x (mod n), and if ab = d, ad ≡ y (mod m) = d ≡ y (mod m). 
- e. Use the definitions of equivalence classes from the text to make multiplication and addition tables mod 3.
    - nah