# Textbook Reading 1.4

**Defnitions** in math texts are not just descriptions of an object or action; they are REQUIREMENTS for a symbol, term, or something else e.g. definition: lines are parallel if they have no intersections

To **prove** something mathematically, you need to use the definitons given to you e.g. an integer n is odd IF AND ONLY IF n = 2k + 1, k an integer -> 17 is odd because 17 = 2*8 + 1. You CANNOT have more than one definiton for a single term. <font color="red">Definitions are logical "if an only if" <--> statements!!</font> Usually definitons are written as [Object] *x* is [defined term i.e. even || an integer] if [definiting property i.e. x = 2k, k an integer || integer definitng prop] --> D(x) = x is [defined term], P(x) = [x definig property], (Vx)(D(x) <--> P(x)).

**Axioms** or **postulates** are your basic building terms. We need some statement to build off of otherwise it would be impossible to prove anything. These guys are fundamental and basic assumptions about the/your world. **Theorems** are logical statements that follow existing axioms, definitons, and or other theorems. **Proofs** are statements/arguments that prove the validity/truth of a statement or theorem using definitons, proven theroems, and or axioms. 

Usually math statements are like (Vx)P(x), and we know the negation. Only one or the other can be true but not both, therefore if you find a ¬P(x) then you know (Vx)P(x) is false. A **counterexample** is like the ¬P(x) or something that shows the original statement to be false.

**Axiomatic Systems** have **undefined terms** (these guys are abstractions and have no formal meaning) which act as the starting vocabulary for a system e.g. a system for four point geometry --> undefined terms: point, line, is on, etc. Some undefined terms can be better defined as definitons but you will need some undefined terms to start with. **Models** are a specific context in which all undefined terms have meaning and all the axioms are true.