### 1. Answer the following questions

a. The video says a logician has to look out the window to decide whether “if it’s raining, then the sun is shining” is true. What’s the logical principle that explains this?

In ordinary langauge, we would believe this statement to be *false* since it doesn't really make sense for there to be rain AND for the sun to shine. However, that's only the case when we consider that train of throught. It's entirely possible that there is no rain AND for the sun to be shining still. In that sense, the statement is true since the sun is shining even if there doesn't happen to be any rain. 

b. In general, under each of these conditions, decide whether “p→q” is true:
    - p is true and q is true: True
    - p is true and q is false: False
    - p is false and q is true: True
    - p is false and q is false: True

### 2. Put your conclusions into a truth-table

|p|q|p -> q|
|-|-|:------:|
|T|T|T|
|T|F|F|
|F|T|T|
|F|F|T|

### 3. Jack says “If it rains tomorrow, I will wear my boots.” Which combinations of weather and footwear are possible assuming Jack is telling the truth?

p = It is raining tomorrow
q = I will wear my boots
True is p && q is false, if p is false and q is true, and if p is true and q is true.

### 4. Let’s make a truth-table for ￢p v q

|p|q|¬p|¬p v q|
|-|-|:-:|:---:|
|T|T|F|T|
|T|F|F|F|
|F|T|T|T|
|F|F|T|T|

### 5. What’s the point of the extra  column for ￢p in the truth-table for exercise 4?

So we can plug it into our formula and not have to think about doing it, I guess. It seems pretty trivial for this formula, but when things get more complicated and there are more symbols, it's going to be a lot harder to keep track of.

### 6. Let’s make a truth-table for (￢p v q) ^ (p v q).

|p|q|¬p|(¬p v q)|(p v q)|(￢p v q) ^ (p v q)|
|-|-|--|:------:|:-----:|:-----------------:|
|T|T|F|T|T|T|
|T|F|F|F|T|F|
|F|T|T|T|T|T|
|F|F|T|T|F|F|

### 7. Explain where the columns of exercise 6 came from.

We made columns for each variable and for each nested thing, and then for the whole formula.

### 8. The two formulas ￢p v q and p v q are called logically equivalent. What does it mean in terms of their truth-tables for two formulas to be logically equivalent?

For two tables / statements to be logically equivalent, it means they must have the same T/F values for all cases. I don't know if that means that they just have to have the same amount of Fs and Ts as each other or of it also means that each config of their components have to end up in the same result. 

### 9. Can you think of a simpler formula that is logically equivalent to (￢p v q) ^ (p v q)? Explain.

q is in both of the individual statements so we might be able to factor it out? It seems to work.

|(￢p v q) ^ (p v q)|q ^ (¬p v p)|
|:-----------------:|:----------:|
|T|T|
|F|F|
|T|T|
|F|F|