## 2b: Section 1.2 Exercises
# Questions: 1-5, 7-10, 14, 15-18, 27, 28

### 1: Use truth table to establish modus tollens
*Modus tollens* (p -> q)/¬q } ¬p

|p|q|p -> q|¬p|(p -> q) ^ ¬q|
|-|-|:----:|:-:|:----------:|
|T|T|T|F|F|
|T|F|F|F|F|
|F|T|T|T|T|
|F|F|T|T|T|

### 2: Fill in the reasons in the following proof sequence. Make sure you indicate which step(s) each derivation rule refers to.
Statements : Reasons
1. q ∧ r : given 
2. ¬(¬p ∧ q) : given 
3. ¬¬p ∨ ¬q : De Morgan's Law, 2
4. p ∨ ¬q : simplification, 3
5. ¬q ∨ p : association, 4
6. q → p  : implication, 5
7. q : given, 1
8. p : modus ponens, 6 && 7

### 3: Fill in the reasons in the following proof sequence. Make sure you indicate which step(s) each derivation rule refers to.  
Statements : Reasons
1. (p ∧ q)→ r : given
2. ¬(p ∧ q) ∨ r : implication, 1
3. (¬p ∨ ¬q) ∨ r : De Morgan's Law, 2
4. ¬p ∨ (¬q ∨ r) : Association, 3
5. p→(¬q ∨ r) : Implication, 4

### 4: Is the proof in Exercise 2 reversible? Why or why not?
No because if we start with p as our give, we have no idea of the relationship between it a q or if q even if exists

### 5: Is the proof in Exercise 3 reversible? Why or why not?
Yes because we only reordered the same expression and did not make any branching statements or **inferences**. We ONLY stuck with **equivalences**

### 7: Justify each conclusion with a derivation rule.
a. If Joe is artistic, he must also be creative. Joe is not creative. Therefore, Joe is not artistic.
(j -> a) ^ c, ¬c shows that the statement becomes false

b. Lingli is both athletic and intelligent. Therefore, Lingli is athletic.
Simplification

c. If Monique is 18 years old, then she may vote. Monique is 18 years old. Therefore, Monique may vote.
Modus Ponens

d. Marianne has never been north of Saskatoon or south of Santo Domingo. In other words, she has never been north of Saskatoon and she has never been south of Santo Domingo.
¬(k v d), ¬k ^ ¬d, De Morgan's Law

### 8: Which derivation rule justifies the following argument?
If n is a multiple of 4, then n is even. However, n is not even. Therefore, n is not a
multiple of 4.

(n -> e) ^ ¬e => ¬n, Modus Tollens

### 9: Let x and y be integers. Given the statement: x > y or x is odd. what statement follows by the implication rule?
g v x, ¬g -> x

### 10: Let Q be a quadrilateral. Given the statements: If Q is a rhombus, then Q is a parallelogram | Q is not a parallelogram | what statement follows by modus tollens?
r -> p ^ ¬p => ¬r

### 14: Suppose that all of the following status reports are correct:
- Processor B is not working and processor C is working.
- Processor A is working if and only if processor B is working.
- At least one of the two processors A and B is not working.

a. Let a = “A is working,” b = “B is working,” and c = “C is working.”

b. How would you justify the conclusion that B is not working? (In other words, given the statements in part (a), which derivation rule allows you to conclude ¬b?)
It is given to us the processor b is not working and that processor c is working
(¬b ^ c) ^ (a <=> b) ^ (¬a v ¬b) } c

c. How would you justify the conclusion that C is working?
It is given to us that C is working

d. Write a proof sequence to conclude that A is not working. (In other words, given the statements in part (a), write a proof sequence to conclude ¬a.)
(¬b ^ c) ^ (a <=> b) ^ (¬a v ¬b) } c

1. c : given
2. ¬b : given
3. a <=> b : given
4. (a -> b) ^ (b -> a) : conversion of 3, we know
5. a -> b : simplification, 4
6. ¬a : modus tollens 2, 5

### 15: Write a proof sequence for the following assertion. Justify each step.
(p -> q) ^ (r -> (p ^ q)) } ¬r

r -> (p ^ q) && ¬(p ^ q) => ¬r, modus tollens 

1. p -> q : given
2. r -> (p ^ q) : given
3. ¬p v q : implication, 1
4. ¬r v (p ^ q) : implication, 2
5. (p ^ q) : simplification, 4
6. ¬p v ¬q : De Morgan's Law, 5
7. ¬r : modus tollens, 6 && 2

### 16: Write a proof sequence for the following assertion. Justify each step.
p ^ (p -> r) ^ (q -> ¬r) } ¬q

2 -> p ^ (¬p v r) ^ (¬q ^ ¬r) 
x -> p ^ (p ^ ¬r) ^ (¬q ^ ¬r) **|->|** p ^ p ^ ¬r ^ ¬q ^ ¬r **|->|** p ^ ¬r ^ ¬q

q -> r && ¬r } ¬q via modus tollens

1. p ^ (p -> r) ^ (q -> ¬r) : given
2. q -> ¬r : given
3. p -> r : given
4. ¬q v ¬r : implication, 2
5. ¬p v r : implication, 3
6. p ^ (p ^ ¬r) ^ (¬q ^ ¬r) : substitution, 1, 2:4, 3:5
7. p ^ ¬r ^ ¬q : simplification, 6
8. ¬q : simplification 7

### 17: Write a proof sequence for the following assertion. Justify each step.
(p -> q) ^ (p ^ r) } q ^ r

(¬p v q) ^ (p ^ r) **|->|** (p ^ ¬q) ^ p ^ r **|->|** p ^ ¬q ^ r
Didn't I just disprove this??

1. p -> q : given
2. ¬p v q : implication, 1
3. p ^ ¬q : De Morgan's Law, 2

### 18: Write a proof sequence for the following assertion.
¬(a ^ ¬b) ^ ¬b } ¬a

1. ¬(a v ¬b) : given
2. ¬b : given
3. ¬a v b : De Morgan's Law 1
4. a : Example 1.8 (b v ¬a) ^ (¬b) => a

### 27: Use a truth table to show that (a → b) ∧ (a ∧ ¬b) is a contradiction.
|a|b|¬b|a → b|a ^ ¬b|(a → b) ^ (a ^ ¬b)|
|-|-|:-:|:--:|:----:|:----------------:|
|T|T|F|T|F|F|
|T|F|T|F|T|F|
|F|T|F|T|F|F|
|F|F|T|T|F|F|

### 28: Is a → ¬a a contradiction? Why or why not?
a → ¬a == ¬a v ¬a which is NOT a contradiction since ¬a is True half of th time